A set of python utilities to automate routine tasks associated with the ATLAS Trigger Validation Shifts at the Large Hadron Collider. These tools employ a smart HTML parser ([BeautifulSoup](http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/)) to discover and report bugs in the reports generated by the automated unit testing system (ATN). A version of the code relying on the recently announced Oracle nightlies DB is in preparation.

# Subscribe to trigger validation mailing lists #

Here are the mailing lists that you need to subscribe to for the duration of trigger validation shifts:
```
 atlas-trig-relcoord@cern.ch
 hn-atlas-triggerreleasevalidation@cern.ch
```

You can subscribe using the [following webpage](https://groups.cern.ch/Pages/default.aspx). Just use the "quick search for a group" box, and then click "Join/leave group".

These mailing lists have a LOT of traffic, so you will likely need to set up some filter rules in your email program to avoid cluttering the inbox.

In order to **send** emails, such as daily shift reports, you will also need to configure your email program to send [outgoing messages through the CERN smtp server](https://espace.cern.ch/mmmservices-help/AccessingYourMailbox/Thunderbird/Pages/Configuration_Thunderbird3.aspx).

# Check out the code from svn #

If you already have the CERN password for the special **atrvshft** user, use the following command:
```
svn checkout svn+ssh://atrvshft@svn.cern.ch/reps/atlasgroups/Trigger/TrigValShiftTools/trunk TrigValShiftTools
```

If you don't have the CERN password for **atrvshft** user, please request it from the shift coordinator. In the meanwhile, you can check out a recent version from google code:
```
svn checkout https://atlas-trigval-shifter.googlecode.com/svn/TriggerValidation/trunk/ atlas-trigval-shifter --username GOOGLE_USERNAME@gmail.com
```

**The following is NOT relevant if you checked out the code from the CERN SVN:** You do not need a password to check out the code from google code. But when you do your first commit, you will be prompted for your generated [googlecode.com password](https://code.google.com/hosting/settings) (which is **not** the same as your regular google/gmail password!). Before your first shift, please make a dummy change to the file "TODO" in the project directory and try to commit to make sure you have all necessary permissions. If committing doesn't work, it likely means you are not a committer for this project. Please email Anton Kapliy and he will add you to the list of committers.

# Read documentation #
  * [Usage Instructions](UsageInstructions.md) give a detailed overview of the scripts and a recommended sequence of steps to produce a high-quality shift report.
  * [Video Tutorials](VideoTutorial.md) provide a quick introduction into the shift taking process. It should take about 20 minutes to go through all the videos.